Hey, guys.
In this video, I am going to show you how to install and download Visual Studio code on your Windows
ten operating system.
So let's get started.
So to start with it, just open your favorite web browser and search for Visual Studio code.
And the first link which will appear here will be from quote dot visual dot studio dot com.
So we are going to click on this name and once this website is open straight away, you will be able
to see this blue download button for windows.
We are going to just click on this blue button, which is going to download this executable file and
this executable file is around 50 megabytes.
So I am going to wait for the download to complete.
Once the download is complete, open the executable file and this will appear like this.
So you have to accept the agreement mentioned here.
Click on the next button and here you will receive various checkboxes for the additional tasks required
in the setup.
The checkboxes her mention as a create a desktop icon and open with code action and open with code action
in context menu register code.
So keep this checked.
And also I would like to check click this checkbox, create a desktop icon as if we have a desktop icon
for Visual Studio code.
It would be very convenient for you to open the app very conveniently.
Then click on the next button.
How do we have to click on the install button and wait for the installation to complete?
So after the successful installation of Visual Studio Code, the Visual Studio Code application will
launch on your desktop and it will look like this.
Trust me, it is the best idea for running any of the program you wish to run.
Look at the beautiful layout of Visual Studio code.
We have a file button, edit button, selection button, view button go button run button, terminal
help and so on.
You can click on any of the options and start.
Performing your desirable task with this application.
So coming to the fact we are here to create a Java project and I am sure you may be wondering that how
you can run Java programs in your favorite Visual Studio code.
So now I am going to show you step by step process to configure Visual Studio code for running Java
programs correctly.
And I am going to also show you how you can run the basic Java program in Visual Studio code on Windows
ten machines.
So without any further delay, let's get started.
Firstly, we have to download the latest version of JDK and to download it we have to visit the official
site of JDK download, which is Oracle.
Now open up your favorite web browser.
I am using Google Chrome here and then open the link appearing on the top of the page.
This link will redirect you to the official site.
Oracle to download latest JDK version.
So now you can see we have her download links for JDK for Linux, Windows and Mac OS.
So we are going to download it for Windows.
Now select the 64 bit installer.
Currently it sizes 152 and by clicking on the download link.
The download has started now.
Wait for the download to complete.
So once the download is complete, you can see the executable file in your downloads folder.
So we have to run this executable file to install JDK in our system.
So one show that you already have this software installed in your computer, would you like to reinstall
it?
So I am clicking.
No, but you have to wait for the installation to be completed.
And once the installation is complete, I will take you to the command prompt which will show you how
JDK is installed and what is the version it will.
Reflect, I think.
Yes.
Type Java minus minus Virgin to get the version of Java.
And to check whether the JDK is completely installed in your system or not.
So click enter and yet you can see Java 17.2 .12 years.
JDK is completely installed in your system.
Congratulations.
Now there is one more task that we are supposed to do before running a Java program in our favorite
compiler Visual Studio code.
So click on the search bar and type environment here.
So there are two options.
We have to select the first one.
Remember, click on the first one only.
Yes.
So after clicking on this, we have the environment variable system properties.
We have to click environment variables and then click on this path option.
After clicking on this path option, we have to click edit, remember, we have to click edit and then
we have to.
And did the environment variable for Java.
Now I will show you.
Here you can see we have this environment variable, but for our JDK version.
So you must be wondering where this part came from.
Let me show this to you.
So go to your desktop settings and then.
File Explorer.
Yes.
Go to your C Drive.
And then program files.
Yes.
So search for Java in your program files folder.
The member search for Java.
Yes.
So here it is.
So click on the Java 17 and copy the.
But.
When you copy the path from here, you have to paste in your environment.
Variable.
Edit button I already have pasted so I will not do anything, but you have to paste it and click on
the okay button.
Remember click on the okay button twice.
Okay.
So your environment variable is set for java.
Now we will close this tab.
After successfully setting the environment variable for JDC.
Now we are here in our Visual Studio code to run a Java program.
So let's get started.
Hey, we have to create a fine new file.
You may create a folder.
To run this.
So I am.
So to run a Java program, we have to open any of the folder from our system.
So I am opening a new folder.
And selecting it.
So the folder is open in Visual Studio code.
We have to create a new file, so let me name it.
Hello dot java.
Oh, sorry.
I'm sticking with that, Peter.
Let me rename this.
Hello.
Dot Java.
Yes.
So we have created a file with extension Java.
Remember, it is must to add this dot java at the end of your file name.
Now we will run a simple Java program to print helloworld.
So let's start writing our very first program in Java.
We have to create a class.
Name.
Hello.
For Blix, that pick would mean.
String.
You meant.
So yes, we created a class and under the class we created a main function inside class.
Hello is responsible for running our Hello World Program.
Place inside this.
We have to write this out.
There is a shortcut also.
But I would like to write the.
Completely.
So that you feel it.
Comfortable.
Later, I will tell you about the shortcuts in a separate video.
So yes.
System dot dot print is required for printing anything in Java.
Her.
And the inverted comma contains a string helloworld.
It is necessary to enclose the string inside the double inverted commas.
So yes, we have written the program successfully.
Now we are here to run this.
Okay.
So before running, we missed a semicolon after this break.
Yes.
Now, the code is perfectly fine and we should run it.
So clicking on this run button right here.
Yes.
Perfect.
So we got the output.
Hello world.
Inside the.
Darmanin?
Yes.
So the code is run successfully.
And you successfully run your first Java program, so can congratulate yourself first.
Let me tell you a most important feature of this Visual Studio code.
If I erase this semicolon, it automatically shows a red indentation error and you can click on this
bulb icon, which appears here.
Which shows that there is a syntax error.
Insert semicolon to complete the log statement.
So yes, this is the most important feature of Visual Studio code that it helps us with our mistakes,
it helps us to clarify our errors.
So yes, you have to write your code and wait for Visual Studio code to tell you that if your code is
correct or there are some syntax error or compiler error.
So yes, I like Visual Studio code for this specific feature and there are many other features which
we will together get to know in this project series.